IN THE UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE

Utility Patent Application (Provisional)


Method of Cooking an Egg

Charles Chan, Los Angeles, California, Jane Smith, Portland, Maine


SPECIFICATION


BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0023]	The present invention is in the technical field of converting raw or fresh nutrient sources into digestible or more palatable forms (also known as “cooking”). More particularly, the present invention is in the technical field of cooking raw eggs.
[0024]	Eggs can be consumed raw, for instance in the form of a drink such as eggnog. Other than such drinks, conventionally eggs are consumed as cooked foods in which the fluid or semi-fluid internal contents are converted to soft solids by the denaturation of protein. Conventional egg cooking methods require breaking the eggshell to release the internal contents (“unshelled egg” or hereinafter merely “egg”) and then denaturing the egg’s proteins, typically by heating in a frying pan. The cooked egg, regardless of whether it is cooked scrambled or sunny-side-up, is conventionally consumed warm shortly after cooking. A cooked egg’s soft-solid condition makes storage and/or transport impractical. The eggshell is discarded as waste.    
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0025]	The present invention is a method of cooking an egg within its shell by immersion in water that is thereafter boiled, whereby the egg is converted to a semi-solid via protein denaturation while it is still protected by the shell. Such a cooked (“boiled”) egg can be readily stored and/or transported within the intact shell for consumption at a later time and/or remote location.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
[0026]	Fig. 1 is a side view of an egg being boiled illustrating a step of a method of the present invention;
[0027]	Fig. 2 is a flow-diagram of steps of a method of the present invention; and
[0028]	Fig. 3 is a flow-diagram of steps of a method of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0029]	Referring now to the invention in more detail, shown in Fig. 1 is an illustration of an egg-boiling arrangement 10 produced by the method shown in Fig. 2. Said egg-boiling arrangement 10 comprises an egg 12 immersed in water 14 in a cooking pot 16 seated on a gas-stove burner 18 wherein the cooking pot 16 is covered with a lid 20 to diminish loss of heat to atmosphere. Shown in Fig. 2 is a first flow diagram 40 of a method of boiling an egg comprised of the steps of adding water 42, adding an egg 44, covering the pot 48, heating the water 50 and removing the egg 52.
[0030]	In the step of adding water 42, water 14 is added to the cooking pot 16. In the step of adding an egg 44, the egg 12 is added to the cooking pot 16.  In the step of covering pot 48 the normally-open top of the cooking pot 16 is covered with a lid 20. The order in which the water and the egg are added may of course be reversed but the step of covering pot 48 is performed after both of those first two steps.
[0031]	In the step of heating water 50, the cooking pot 16 is heated on the burner 18, whereby the water 14 eventually starts to boil. The egg 12 will be fully boiled after about 8 to 10 minutes of immersion in the water 14 as it boils. Although theoretically is could be possible to add the egg 12 to the water 14 after the water 14 has started to boil, in practice such an abrupt immersion of a chilled or room-temperature egg into boiling water would rupture the egg shell to the detriment of a number of advantages of the present invention.
[0032]	In the step of egg removal 52, after the elapse of a sufficient period of time, which again is from about 8 to 10 minutes, the egg 12 (which is now a “boiled egg”) is removed from the cooking pot 16 and allowed to cool to at least ambient room temperature.
[0033]	The resultant boiled egg preferably has been boiled suffiently to provide, when unshelled, a semi-solid egg that that is pliant but not mushy. In other words, the boiled egg can be handled and wrapped without detachment of bits or chucks of the boiled egg. The boiled egg can be stored for days if left in the intact shell and can be left in an unshelled condition for a reasonable time period without spoiling, which permits the boiled egg to be consumed at a later date and/or a remote location.
[0034]	A less advantageous variation of the present invention is to remove the egg from the boiling water after only about 5 or 5 minutes, whereby a “soft-boiled egg” is produced. A soft-boiled egg is mushy and generally would be consumed as soon as cooling permits the shell to be removed. Nonetheless, such production of a soft-boiled egg is not excluded from broad embodiments of the invention.
[0035]	As shown the second flow diagram 80 of Fig. 3, in broad embodiment the present invention is a method comprised of the steps of egg-protein-denaturing 82 by maintaining a shelled egg at an elevated temperature of from 85 to 110 oC degrees for a sufficient to denature its proteins to at least a measurable degree and then egg cooling 84 by removing the egg from the elevated temperature to a cooler environment.
[0036]	While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof, those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations, combinations, and equivalents of the specific embodiment, method, and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment, method, and examples, but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as claimed.
ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A method of cooking an egg boils a shelled egg in water seating until its proteins are denatured whereby, upon removing the shell, the egg is in an intact semi-solid form.